Hi friends in this video let us discuss about pointer
to a whole array
So we have learned about pointers which point to a particular
element of an array.
Similarly we can declare a pointer to entire array.
See an example
First let us declare the array arr with elements 10 20 30
40 and 50
Now to declare a pointer to an array, use the syntax
datatype followed by * name of the pointer
within  brackets and the size of the array in
square brackets
And finally a semi colon. So we write int , *ptr
within brackets and five which is the size in square
brackets. It simply means ptr is a pointer to an
array of five integers.
Now we assign the base address of the array to the
pointer ptr. So ptr will hold the base address
Now let us dereference it
Since ptr
is an array of five elements, *ptr will
be the address of the first element which is also
**ptr will be the value stored at 1024
which is 10
Now let us discuss about array of pointers
So just like an array of integers, an array of
characters,
we can also define an array of pointers.
The syntax for that is the data type followed by
*array name followed by size in square brackets and finally
a semi colon
See an example we have int *arr[5]
here
arr is an array of five integer pointers
Now we are declaring five integer variables,
a,b,c,d and e and assigning values 10 20 30
40 and 50 respectively
Next we have arr[0] equal to
&a so address of a which is 1024 will be
stored in arr[0]
That is it points to the variable a.
Next we have arr[1] equal to &b
so address of b which is 1032 will be
stored in arr[1] and it points to the
variable b. similarly arr[2] points to c.
arr[3] points to d and arr[4] points to e.
Now let us dereference the array of pointers
Since each arr[index] holds an integer variable address
*arr[index] will give the values stored in it.
So see an example
arr[0] equal to 1024 which is the address
of a. so *arr[0] will be
*(1024)
that is values stored at 1024 which is 10
similarly arr[1] equal to 1032 which is the address
of b. so *arr[1] will be
*(1032) that is value stored at 1032 and we get
Similarly we can get *arr[2] equal to 30.
*arr[3] equal to 40 and
*arr[4] equal to 50
Now let's print the address and the values of each
array element using a for loop
In each iteration we print arr[i] which is
the address and *arr[i] which is the
value
So for i equal to zero we get arr[0]
equal to 1024 and *arr[0] equal to 10.
For i equal to one
We get arr[1] equal to 1032 and
*(arr[1]) equal to 20. For i equal to 2, we
get arr[2] equal to 1048 and *(arr[2])
equal to 30
Similarly we will get the remaining element's addresses and values
So that's all and thank you for watching this video